[Music]
I'm Father Mark Mary with Franciscan
friers with the renewal and this is the
Rosary in your podcast we're through
prayer and meditation the rosary brings
us deeper into relationship with Jesus
and Mary and becomes a source of Grace
for the whole world the Rosary in a year
is brought to you by Ascension this is
day three to download the prayer plan
for Rosary in a year visit Ascension
press.com Rosary in year or text Ry to
33777 you get an outline of how we're
going to preach month and it's a great
way to track your progress the best
place to listen to podcast is in the
Ascension app there are special features
built just for this podcast and also
recordings of the full Rosary with
myself and other
Friars today we're going to continue
practicing connecting to Jesus in prayer
we want our prayer whatever kind of
prayer it is to be an experience and an
expression of
relationship I'm not just talking to
myself or a statue right that doesn't
see me or hear me me or most importantly
love me that's just not prayer prayer is
an encounter with the Living
God yesterday we visited Jesus the king
in his throne room and emphasized the
truth that Jesus knows your name he sees
you and he loves to hear your voice with
the grace of the Holy Spirit we want
this to be our starting point when we
pray Jesus is looking at me he hears me
and he loves
me the catechism describes meditation as
a quest and today's
meditation continues our quest to find
and receive the fullness of the answer
to these questions like
Jesus who are you Jesus what is your
heart
like and Jesus what is your heart like
for
me and our starting point for this
ongoing
contemplation of the face of Jesus which
is one way to understand like this quest
of understanding like who he is the
ongoing contemplation of the face of
Jesus we're going to start like we did
yesterday using the Litany of the Sacred
Heart namely the invocation Heart of
Jesus
patient and full of
Mercy instead of returning to the throne
room of the Victorious King today I'd
invite you to go with me to the
workshop where Joseph
taught Jesus his own
trade the details of this Workshop you
can create with your own
imagination personally I Envision this
first
century Workshop in Nazareth to have the
floors and the walls made of a variety
of of dirt and stone and
wood each of the walls has windows that
are wide open and the sunlight is
flowing in with the
breeze so just go ahead and take a
moment to picture it to feel the
breeze and around the room are a variety
of
tools there's wood carving scattered
across the floor and their Aroma fills
the
room now you're in the workshop because
Jesus invited you to join him to make
some wood candlesticks for Mary he said
want to make some candlesticks for Mom
yeah let's do
it as we begin take a moment to picture
the face of
Jesus to do this you can use your own
imagination or you can maybe find a
favorite image of yours the face of
Jesus but picture his
face and as he begins getting the
materials and the tools ready and notice
his
hands the dirt under his fingernails
calluses these are the hands of a
working
man so at this point I'm going to enter
into the meditation and like the first
person and I'll invite you to do the
same to place yourself in the scene is
is Jesus is getting things ready I
mentioned to
him Jesus like all right I'm here to
help make you know candlesticks with you
but I don't know what I'm doing right
especially not with first century
tools I see Jesus Simply Smile it's a
knowing smile and he says I know I know
I'm going to teach you and I'm not going
anywhere we'll do it
together and as we're working we both
have matching pieces of wood and tools
maybe a chisel a
hammer at the beginning he teaches and
he models to me like the right technique
and then we both begin working away
chiseling at our individual wood
pieces and each of Jesus's Swings with
his hammer are masterful he knows
exactly what he's doing confident sure
mine on the other hand each of my swings
is awkward you know it's lacking both
confidence and
experience and I imagine us working this
way and
quiet for maybe a number of hours and
I'm really focused on what I'm doing but
also like keenly
aware that I'm not alone like that he's
with me that he's overseen my
work and we'll step out of the scene for
a moment and I'm just going to ask you
to reflect on how your your heart would
feel in this setting like emotionally
what are you
feeling as you're there working trying
something new in Jesus's presence you're
in Jesus's
presence do you feel pressure to get it
right is there a stress there a need
like to keep Pace with
Jesus are you looking at how he's doing
and trying to keep
up as you m hit with your own hammer and
chisel do you look to see if he saw it
hoping he
didn't if you make mist Stak and Scar
the piece of wood you try and quickly
cover it up hiding it from
him because your heart experiencing
anxiety
stress
or in the presence of Jesus working away
at something new do you experience
Peace and
Freedom the Peace of not being in a
hurry the Peace of having the freedom to
make mistakes
as Jesus watches you do you experience
his gaze upon you as
critical and
accusatory or
patient and full of
Mercy the objective reality is the Heart
of Jesus is patient and full of
Mercy are you in his presence in touch
and living in this
reality as I'm reflecting on this I
think to some of my own experiences of
working around other people I experien
this sometimes when I'm driving in the
car too like like a stress I don't want
to make mistake and I'm like more
focused on not making mistake and so
sometimes it makes me like hurry and
make a mistake and and that's just I
know I know that's not what Jesus wants
me to experience around
him as so as I'm in the tool shop with
Jesus I feel at least like I want to
feel at least in this time of meditation
I feel peace in Freedom like Jesus just
is not in a
hurry he knows this is new to me he
doesn't expect me to figure it out right
away I'm not his first student
either and perhaps I experience some
impatience while I'm chisling away the
piece of my wood and perhaps I'm like
I'm swinging at and I break and a half
right he sees it and I notice how how
just gently and patiently and Tenderly
he asks him okay and he goes to get
another
piece and as he gets me a new piece of
wood I'm struck that he grabs himself a
new
piece we both start over like
together is I'm there you know working
away at some point I'm just like hey
Jesus hey I know I'm slowing you down if
you want to make these yourself I can
step out I I totally get it I understand
I'm holding you
back and you know I see Jesus just
looking at me with his merciful and his
understanding eyes and he says hey I'm
in no hurry I love spending time with
you and I love that you're spending time
with
me and Jesus says hey can I let you in
on a little secret I said yeah of course
and he says referring to Mary you know
like mom wants us to spend time together
more than she wants these new
candlesticks in fact us just spending
time together is the greatest gift that
we can give to her as
well this is the Heart of Jesus
patient and full of
Mercy not in a
hurry not put off by our
mistakes just with us Jesus with us
teaching
us and he's here to Journey with us as
long as it takes for us to
learn now my friends my hope is that
you've been able to enter into this
meditation like even to the point of
experiencing maybe from within like the
emotions of your heart like how would
you actually feel how would you
respond to learning something
new in the presence of
Jesus can you feel peace can you feel
freedom to learn at your own pace to
make
mistakes he's just with you on the
journey as long as it
takes can you experience in his presence
like his patience and his heart full of
Mercy do you see that the project the
secondary what's primary is us being
relationship with
him I realize that for some of us
because of our life experience like that
just might not be the
reality so start there tell them about
that be in the wood shop if you're
stressed if you're anxious if you're
uncomfortable if you want him to leave
so you can sort of figure it out by
yourself tell him that now if I can get
a little bit more specific My Hope Is
that we can experience this
freedom and bring it to our prayer
always particularly in this context when
we're praying the
rosary as Jesus isn't worried about the
Perfection of the candlesticks he's not
worried about the Perfection of form of
your prayer it's okay if we get
distracted sometimes or lose count
struggle to meditate maybe even fall
asleep sometimes our prayer in general
and our praying of the Rosary it's just
not something that we need to execute
with perfect form and
concentration we don't just have to get
it
right but we want to pray we want to
pray the
rosary certainly as well as possible but
most importantly like with a perfect
love and Trust like we have permission
to be beginners we have time to learn
Jesus is patient it's okay if we make
mistakes Jesus is full of
Mercy but it's not okay just to give up
right it's not okay just to stop
praying we need to remain with
him so that's my hope as we you know
begin our journey of praying the
rosary if we can have that experi
experience of learning to pray or going
deeper in prayer as we might working
with Jesus in the wood shop we're so
close to him we're so aware of his
presence he sees us but he looks upon us
and he looks upon our prayer and
receives it with a heart that is patient
and a Heart full of
mercy so as we close today with our
father and our hail Mar's and our glory
be like I just really I'm going to
invite you to kind of lock in on this
experience
to continue to focus to pray with it to
reflect on
it so that as we come to prayer again
and again and again particularly you
know each day during this rosary year
podcast that as we are praying we are
doing so in the presence of
Jesus aware of him he knows us he loves
us and he looks upon us with a heart
full of patience and
mercy asking to remain in this reality
to be able to remember this reality
every time we pray let us pray today in
the name of the father and of the son
and of the holy spirit amen Our Father
who art in heaven Hallowed be thy name
thy kingdom come thy will be done on
Earth as it is in heaven give us this
day our daily bread and forgive us our
trespasses as we forgive those who
trespass against us and lead us not into
temptation
but Deliver Us from Evil
amen Hail Mary full of grace the Lord is
with thee blessed art thou among women
and blessed is the fruit of thy womb
Jesus holy Mary Mother of God pray for
us sinners now and at the hour of our
death amen Hail Mary full of grace the
Lord is with thee blessed art thou among
women and blessed is the fruit of thy
womb Jesus holy Mary Mother of God pray
for us sinners now and at the hour of
our death
amen Hail Mary full of grace the Lord is
with thee blessed art thou among women
and blessed is the fruit of thy womb
Jesus holy Mary Mother of God pray for
us sinners now and at the hour of our
death amen glory be to the father and to
the son and to the Holy Spirit as it was
in the beginning is now and ever shall
be world World Without End Amen in the
name of the father and of the son and of
the holy spirit
amen all right thanks for joining me in
praying with me today I look forward to
continuing this journey with you again
tomorrow all right po poke friends God
bless y'all